README.md, before:

# redfish
### Distributed Management Task Force

https://www.dmtf.org/standards/redfish

The Distributed Management Task Force has created a server management standard called Redfish. 
DMTF’s Redfish® is a standard designed to deliver simple and secure management for converged, 
hybrid IT and the Software Defined Data Center (SDDC). Both human readable and machine capable, 
Redfish leverages common Internet and web services standards to expose information directly to 
the modern tool chain.

The DMTF's Python Library can be found here:
https://github.com/DMTF/python-redfish-library

### Environment

#### Python

Requires the installation of Python 3

Install required python libraries using requirements.txt

#### Forward Redfish Port

In order to interact with your server's BMC you'll likely need to port forward.  The server's ip 
address is the same as the IPMI ip.  Use ForwardRedfishPort.sh to easily port forward using ssh.
An example usage is bellow:

```
$ export REDFISH_HOME=~/PycharmProjects/redfish/
$ echo $REDFISH_HOME 
/Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/
$ source bin/forwardRedfishPort
$ source bin/forwardRedfishPort 
$ redfishEnable 8443 xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx 443 jump-server
Authorized uses only. All activity may be monitored and reported.
$ ps -ef | grep ssh
  ...
  501 47579     1   0 11:50AM ??         0:00.00 ssh -fqTnN -L 0.0.0.0:8443:xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:443 jump-server
  501 47578     1   0 11:50AM ttys000    0:00.09 ssh -W [10.200.143.39]:22 dal-jump
  ...
$ curl -k https://localhost:8443/redfish/v1/ | jq -r .
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   863  100   863    0     0   1143      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  1141
{
  "@odata.context": "/redfish/v1/$metadata#ServiceRoot.ServiceRoot",
  "@odata.type": "#ServiceRoot.v1_1_0.ServiceRoot",
  "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/",
  "Id": "RootService",
  "Name": "Root Service",
  "RedfishVersion": "1.0.1",
  "UUID": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-AC1F6BFA9700",
  "Systems": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Systems"
  },
  "Chassis": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Chassis"
  },
  "Managers": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Managers"
  },
  "Tasks": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/TaskService"
  },
  "SessionService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/SessionService"
  },
  "AccountService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/AccountService"
  },
  "EventService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/EventService"
  },
  "UpdateService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/UpdateService"
  },
  "Registries": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Registries"
  },
  "JsonSchemas": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/JsonSchemas"
  },
  "Links": {
    "Sessions": {
      "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/SessionService/Sessions"
    }
  },
  "Oem": {}
}
```

### Example Output from VirtualMediaTest

```
/Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/venv/bin/python /Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/VirtualMediaTest.py
Configuration File: /Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/etc/redfish.json
CONNECTING REDFISH VIRTUAL MEDIA CLIENT##################################
CONNECTED: False
CONNECTED: True
LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA##################################
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 'Description': 'Collection of Virtual Media for this System',
 'Members': [{'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1'}],
 'Members@odata.count': 1,
 'Name': 'Virtual Media Collection',
 'Oem': {'Supermicro': {'@odata.type': '#SmcVirtualMediaExtensions.v1_0_0.VirtualMediaCollection',
                        'VirtualMediaConfig': {'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CfgCD'}}}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
'Virtual Media Devices Mounted: 1'
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMedia.VirtualMedia',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMedia.v1_1_0.VirtualMedia',
 'ConnecteVia': 'URI',
 'Id': 'CD1',
 'Image': '192.168.76.39/sambashare/ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'ImageName': 'ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'Inserted': True,
 'MediaTypes': ['CD', 'DVD'],
 'Name': 'Virtual Removable Media',
 'WriteProtected': True}



UNMOUNT VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'unmounted successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmUnmounted',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
'Can not list virtual media devices because none are attached.'



MOUNT VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'mounted successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmMounted',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}



UPDATE VIRTUAL MEDIA##################################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'configured successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmCdcfgModified',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 'Description': 'Collection of Virtual Media for this System',
 'Members': [{'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1'}],
 'Members@odata.count': 1,
 'Name': 'Virtual Media Collection',
 'Oem': {'Supermicro': {'@odata.type': '#SmcVirtualMediaExtensions.v1_0_0.VirtualMediaCollection',
                        'VirtualMediaConfig': {'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CfgCD'}}}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMedia.VirtualMedia',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMedia.v1_1_0.VirtualMedia',
 'ConnecteVia': 'URI',
 'Id': 'CD1',
 'Image': '192.168.76.39/sambashare/VMware-VMvisor-Installer-7.0.0-15843807.x86_64.iso',
 'ImageName': 'VMware-VMvisor-Installer-7.0.0-15843807.x86_64.iso',
 'Inserted': True,
 'MediaTypes': ['CD', 'DVD'],
 'Name': 'Virtual Removable Media',
 'WriteProtected': True}



UPDATE VIRTUAL MEDIA##################################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'configured successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmCdcfgModified',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 'Description': 'Collection of Virtual Media for this System',
 'Members': [{'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1'}],
 'Members@odata.count': 1,
 'Name': 'Virtual Media Collection',
 'Oem': {'Supermicro': {'@odata.type': '#SmcVirtualMediaExtensions.v1_0_0.VirtualMediaCollection',
                        'VirtualMediaConfig': {'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CfgCD'}}}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMedia.VirtualMedia',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMedia.v1_1_0.VirtualMedia',
 'ConnecteVia': 'URI',
 'Id': 'CD1',
 'Image': '192.168.76.39/sambashare/ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'ImageName': 'ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'Inserted': True,
 'MediaTypes': ['CD', 'DVD'],
 'Name': 'Virtual Removable Media',
 'WriteProtected': True}



DISCONNECTING REDFISH VIRTUAL MEDIA CLIENT##################################
CONNECTED: True
CONNECTED: False
```

Commit message:

Added Samples section to README.md

README.md, after:

# redfish
### Distributed Management Task Force

https://www.dmtf.org/standards/redfish

The Distributed Management Task Force has created a server management standard called Redfish. 
DMTF’s Redfish® is a standard designed to deliver simple and secure management for converged, 
hybrid IT and the Software Defined Data Center (SDDC). Both human readable and machine capable, 
Redfish leverages common Internet and web services standards to expose information directly to 
the modern tool chain.

The DMTF's Python Library can be found here:
https://github.com/DMTF/python-redfish-library

### Environment

#### Python

Requires the installation of Python 3

Install required python libraries using requirements.txt

#### Forward Redfish Port

In order to interact with your server's BMC you'll likely need to port forward.  The server's ip 
address is the same as the IPMI ip.  Use ForwardRedfishPort.sh to easily port forward using ssh.
An example usage is bellow:

```
$ export REDFISH_HOME=~/PycharmProjects/redfish/
$ echo $REDFISH_HOME 
/Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/
$ source bin/forwardRedfishPort
$ source bin/forwardRedfishPort 
$ redfishEnable 8443 xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx 443 jump-server
Authorized uses only. All activity may be monitored and reported.
$ ps -ef | grep ssh
  ...
  501 47579     1   0 11:50AM ??         0:00.00 ssh -fqTnN -L 0.0.0.0:8443:xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:443 jump-server
  501 47578     1   0 11:50AM ttys000    0:00.09 ssh -W [10.200.143.39]:22 dal-jump
  ...
$ curl -k https://localhost:8443/redfish/v1/ | jq -r .
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   863  100   863    0     0   1143      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  1141
{
  "@odata.context": "/redfish/v1/$metadata#ServiceRoot.ServiceRoot",
  "@odata.type": "#ServiceRoot.v1_1_0.ServiceRoot",
  "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/",
  "Id": "RootService",
  "Name": "Root Service",
  "RedfishVersion": "1.0.1",
  "UUID": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-AC1F6BFA9700",
  "Systems": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Systems"
  },
  "Chassis": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Chassis"
  },
  "Managers": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Managers"
  },
  "Tasks": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/TaskService"
  },
  "SessionService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/SessionService"
  },
  "AccountService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/AccountService"
  },
  "EventService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/EventService"
  },
  "UpdateService": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/UpdateService"
  },
  "Registries": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/Registries"
  },
  "JsonSchemas": {
    "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/JsonSchemas"
  },
  "Links": {
    "Sessions": {
      "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/SessionService/Sessions"
    }
  },
  "Oem": {}
}
```
### Samples
Sample applications can be found in the com.ibm.cloud.ngbm.redfish.sample package.  These samples perform individual
redfish operations against a physical server.  Sample applications include: PowerOn, ForcedPowerOn, PowerOff, 
ForcedPowerOff, ListVirtualMedia, MountVirtualMedia, UnmountVirtualMedia, and more.  These sample applications
demonstrate the ease of use inherent to programmatic server management through secure redfish restful interactions. 


### Example Output from VirtualMediaTest

```
/Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/venv/bin/python /Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/VirtualMediaTest.py
Configuration File: /Users/james.mooreibm.com/PycharmProjects/redfish/etc/redfish.json
CONNECTING REDFISH VIRTUAL MEDIA CLIENT##################################
CONNECTED: False
CONNECTED: True
LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA##################################
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 'Description': 'Collection of Virtual Media for this System',
 'Members': [{'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1'}],
 'Members@odata.count': 1,
 'Name': 'Virtual Media Collection',
 'Oem': {'Supermicro': {'@odata.type': '#SmcVirtualMediaExtensions.v1_0_0.VirtualMediaCollection',
                        'VirtualMediaConfig': {'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CfgCD'}}}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
'Virtual Media Devices Mounted: 1'
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMedia.VirtualMedia',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMedia.v1_1_0.VirtualMedia',
 'ConnecteVia': 'URI',
 'Id': 'CD1',
 'Image': '192.168.76.39/sambashare/ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'ImageName': 'ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'Inserted': True,
 'MediaTypes': ['CD', 'DVD'],
 'Name': 'Virtual Removable Media',
 'WriteProtected': True}



UNMOUNT VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'unmounted successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmUnmounted',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
'Can not list virtual media devices because none are attached.'



MOUNT VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'mounted successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmMounted',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}



UPDATE VIRTUAL MEDIA##################################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'configured successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmCdcfgModified',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 'Description': 'Collection of Virtual Media for this System',
 'Members': [{'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1'}],
 'Members@odata.count': 1,
 'Name': 'Virtual Media Collection',
 'Oem': {'Supermicro': {'@odata.type': '#SmcVirtualMediaExtensions.v1_0_0.VirtualMediaCollection',
                        'VirtualMediaConfig': {'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CfgCD'}}}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMedia.VirtualMedia',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMedia.v1_1_0.VirtualMedia',
 'ConnecteVia': 'URI',
 'Id': 'CD1',
 'Image': '192.168.76.39/sambashare/VMware-VMvisor-Installer-7.0.0-15843807.x86_64.iso',
 'ImageName': 'VMware-VMvisor-Installer-7.0.0-15843807.x86_64.iso',
 'Inserted': True,
 'MediaTypes': ['CD', 'DVD'],
 'Name': 'Virtual Removable Media',
 'WriteProtected': True}



UPDATE VIRTUAL MEDIA##################################
{'Success': {'@Message.ExtendedInfo': [{'Message': 'The Virtual Media was '
                                                   'configured successfully.',
                                        'MessageArgs': [''],
                                        'MessageId': 'SMC.v1_0_0.OemVmCdcfgModified',
                                        'RelatedProperties': [''],
                                        'Resolution': 'No resolution was '
                                                      'required.',
                                        'Severity': 'Ok'}],
             'Message': 'Successfully Completed Request. See ExtendedInfo for '
                        'more information.',
             'code': 'Base.v1_4_0.Success'}}
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMediaCollection.VirtualMediaCollection',
 'Description': 'Collection of Virtual Media for this System',
 'Members': [{'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1'}],
 'Members@odata.count': 1,
 'Name': 'Virtual Media Collection',
 'Oem': {'Supermicro': {'@odata.type': '#SmcVirtualMediaExtensions.v1_0_0.VirtualMediaCollection',
                        'VirtualMediaConfig': {'@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CfgCD'}}}}



LIST VIRTUAL MEDIA DEVICE###########################
{'@odata.context': '/redfish/v1/$metadata#VirtualMedia.VirtualMedia',
 '@odata.id': '/redfish/v1/Managers/1/VM1/CD1',
 '@odata.type': '#VirtualMedia.v1_1_0.VirtualMedia',
 'ConnecteVia': 'URI',
 'Id': 'CD1',
 'Image': '192.168.76.39/sambashare/ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'ImageName': 'ubuntu-20.04-live-server-amd64.iso',
 'Inserted': True,
 'MediaTypes': ['CD', 'DVD'],
 'Name': 'Virtual Removable Media',
 'WriteProtected': True}



DISCONNECTING REDFISH VIRTUAL MEDIA CLIENT##################################
CONNECTED: True
CONNECTED: False
```
